Improve Roku documentation (#36247)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/roku.markdown

ha_integration_type: device
---

> The Roku integration allows you to control a [Roku](https://www.roku.com/) media playback device. This integration only supports Roku media playback devices (ie sticks, streaming boxes, and televisions). All other smarthome products (ie light bulbs and cameras) are part of a different ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Roku integration allows you to control a [Roku](https://www.roku.com/) media playback device. This integration only supports Roku media playback devices (such as sticks, streaming boxes, and televisions). All other smart home products (such as light bulbs and cameras) are part of a different ecosystem.
```

If you are having issues connecting, you may have to adjust the settings on your Roku device to allow local control. The common setting is: `Settings / System / Advanced / Control by mobile apps / Network access`

{% include integrations/option_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Play Media Application ID:
  description: The application ID to use when launching media playback. The default is `15985`. This application must support the PlayOnRoku API.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Data updates

The Roku integration polls every 10 seconds to check the current state of media playback. The available applications and television channels are only fetched every 15 minutes.

## Supported functionality

### Entities

The Roku integration provides the following entities.

#### Binary sensor

- **Headphones connected sensor**
  - **Description**: The headphones connected sensor will tell if you if the device has headphones connected for private listening.
  - **Available for devices**: All

- **Supports AirPlay sensor**

>   - **Description**: The supports AirPlay sensor will tell if you if the device is capable of accepting AirPlay connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Description**: The supports AirPlay sensor will tell if the device is capable of accepting AirPlay connections.
```

  - **Available for devices**: All

> - **Supports ethernet sensor**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Supports Ethernet sensor**
```

>   - **Description**: The supports ethernet sensor will tell if you if the device is capable of being connected via an ethernet cable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Description**: The supports Ethernet sensor will tell if the device is capable of being connected via an Ethernet cable.
```

  - **Available for devices**: All

- **Supports find remote sensor**

>   - **Description**: The supports find remote sensor will tell if you if the device is capable of the find remote feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Description**: The supports find remote sensor will tell if the device is capable of the find remote feature.
```

  - **Available for devices**: All

#### Media player

> The integration allows for media playback control including power and source control. It also supports the ability to select sources such as Text to Speech and Camera via "Browse Media".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration allows for media playback control including power and source control. It also supports the ability to select sources such as text-to-speech and Camera via "Browse Media".
```

#### Remote

The integration allows you to send remote control commands. It is automatically set up for all devices.

> The following commands are currently supported dependent on device type and manufacturer support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following commands are currently supported depending on device type and manufacturer support:
```

| Spotify | 22297 | open.spotify.com/playlist/5xddIVAtLrZKtt4YGLM1SQ | spotify:playlist:5xddIVAtLrZKtt4YGLM1SQ | playlist
| YouTube | 837 | youtu.be/6ZMXE5PXPqU | 6ZMXE5PXPqU | live

## Known limitations

Roku has been known to remove or restrict local control functionality as part of major Roku OS upgrades. As such devices may become less functional after an upgrade.

Roku channels, such as YouTube, are maintained by third-parties and as such the availability of features like Content Deeplinking are subject to change without notice.

> ## Remove integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removing the integration
```
